readme.md, before:

# Localizater

[![Latest Version on Packagist][ico-version]][link-packagist]
[![Total Downloads][ico-downloads]][link-downloads]
![Test](https://github.com/Getsupercode/Localizater/workflows/Test/badge.svg)
[![StyleCI](https://github.styleci.io/repos/282613224/shield?branch=master)](https://github.styleci.io/repos/282613224?branch=master)

Laravel package for wrapping routes in multiple locale prefixes.

## Installation

Via Composer

```bash
composer require getsupercode/localizater
```

To detect and change the locale of the application based on the request automatically, you can add this middleware to your `app/Http/Kernel`:

```php
protected $middlewareGroups = [
    'web' => [
        \Getsupercode\Localizater\LocalizaterMiddleware::class,
        // ...
    ]
];
```

## Configuration

By default, the application locales are only going to be `en` and the default locale is not prefixed. If you want to prefix the default locale, please run the following command to publish the configuration file:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Getsupercode\Localizater\LocalizaterServiceProvider" --tag="config"
```

After installing the package, Adding the middleware and publishing the configuration file. You need to edit the configuration file `config/localizater.php` in order to add more locales.

## Note

The default locale is `app.locale` located at `config/app.php` file.

### Config: `localizater.locales`

Add supported locales. It's recommended to write the locale value with its native language.

```php
'locales' => [
    'en' => 'English',
    'fr' => 'Français',
    'ar' => 'العربية',
]
```

### Config: `localizater.rtl_locales`

Add RTL direction locales.

```php
'rtl_locales' => ['ar']
```

### Config: `localizater.prefix_default`

If this option is set to true, Default locale URL will be prefixed.

```txt
true:
  www.example.com/en
  www.example.com/fr

false:
  www.example.com
  www.example.com/fr
```

### Config: `localizater.prefix_default_name`

If this option is set to true, Default locale route name will be prefixed.

**true:**

| Method | URI  | URI      | Name    |
| ------ | ---- | -------- | ------- |
| GET    | HEAD | /page    | en.page |
| GET    | HEAD | /fr/page | fr.page |

**false:**

| Method | URI  | URI      | Name    |
| ------ | ---- | -------- | ------- |
| GET    | HEAD | /page    | page |
| GET    | HEAD | /fr/page | fr.page |

## Usage

The package will not override the route features you already know. It's just a wrapper function that will create multiple locale routes for you.

```php
// routes/web.php

<?php

use Getsupercode\Localizater\Facades\Localizater;
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Route;

Localizater::group(function () {
    Route::view('/', 'welcome')->name('welcome');

    Route::get('/user', 'UserController@index');
});

// Put other (Non read) route actions outside the `Localizater::group` as you don't need to have multiple locales for those actions.

Route::post('/user', 'UserController@store');
```

The above example will give us:

| Method    | URI      | Name       |
| --------- | -------- | ---------- |
| GET\|HEAD | /        | welcome    |
| GET\|HEAD | /fr      | fr.welcome |
| GET\|HEAD | /user    |            |
| GET\|HEAD | /fr/user | fr.        |
| POST      | /user    |            |

### Route naming

If you add a name to a route it will be prepended by the locale key `locale.name`. _for example: (`fr.welcome`)_

All locales without a name will have the same prefix name like `fr.`. And this is normal as you don't need its names.

### Localizater attributes

You can add attributes to the localizer group function as you do with the route group function.

```php
Localizater::group(['middleware' => 'auth'], function () {
    Route::view('/home', 'home')->name('home');
});
```

Or:

```php
Localizater::group(function () {
    Route::group(['middleware' => 'auth'], function () {
        Route::view('/home', 'home')->name('home');
    });
});
```

### Get route URL in a specified locale

You can get the current route URL in different locale key:

```php
// Current route URL: example.com

locale_route(null, 'fr');

// Output: example.com/fr
```

Or a named route:

```php
// Route URL: example.com/fr/home

locale_route('home', 'en');

// Output: example.com/home
```

You can pass the same parameters as the [`route()`](https://laravel.com/docs/7.x/helpers#method-route) function after the locale parameter.

```php
// locale_route($route, $locale, $parameters, $absolute);

// Current route
locale_route(null, 'fr', ['status' => 'active'], true);

// Named route
locale_route('home', 'fr', ['status' => 'active'], true);
```

### Get locale language name

You can get the value of the locale key in `localizater.locales` configuration for the current locale or a specified locale:

```php
locale_name();
// Output: English

locale_name('fr');
// Output: Français

locale_name('ar');
// Output: العربية
```

### Get HTML `dir` attribute based on current locale

You can get HTML `dir` attribute based on current locale. The package will search for RTL locales in `localizater.rtl_locales` config. If the current locale is listed there, The output will be `rtl` or `ltr` if it's not listed.

```php
// Current locale is: ar
locale_dir();
// Output: rtl

// Current locale is: en
locale_dir();
// Output: ltr
```

```html
<html dir="{{ locale_dir() }}"></html>
```

## Change log

Please see the [changelog](changelog.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Contributing

Please see [contributing.md](contributing.md) for details.

## Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email elkebir.med@gmail.com instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Mohamed Elkebir][link-author]
- [All Contributors][link-contributors]

## License

MIT. Please see the [license file](license.md) for more information.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/getsupercode/localizater.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-downloads]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/getsupercode/localizater.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-styleci]: https://styleci.io/repos/282613224/shield
[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/getsupercode/localizater
[link-downloads]: https://packagist.org/packages/getsupercode/localizater
[link-styleci]: https://styleci.io/repos/282613224
[link-author]: https://github.com/elkebirmed
[link-contributors]: ../../contributors

Commit message:

Add: Get `dir` attribute for a specified locale

readme.md, after:

# Localizater

[![Latest Version on Packagist][ico-version]][link-packagist]
[![Total Downloads][ico-downloads]][link-downloads]
![Test](https://github.com/Getsupercode/Localizater/workflows/Test/badge.svg)
[![StyleCI](https://github.styleci.io/repos/282613224/shield?branch=master)](https://github.styleci.io/repos/282613224?branch=master)

Laravel package for wrapping routes in multiple locale prefixes.

## Installation

Via Composer

```bash
composer require getsupercode/localizater
```

To detect and change the locale of the application based on the request automatically, you can add this middleware to your `app/Http/Kernel`:

```php
protected $middlewareGroups = [
    'web' => [
        \Getsupercode\Localizater\LocalizaterMiddleware::class,
        // ...
    ]
];
```

## Configuration

By default, the application locales are only going to be `en` and the default locale is not prefixed. If you want to prefix the default locale, please run the following command to publish the configuration file:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Getsupercode\Localizater\LocalizaterServiceProvider" --tag="config"
```

After installing the package, Adding the middleware and publishing the configuration file. You need to edit the configuration file `config/localizater.php` in order to add more locales.

## Note

The default locale is `app.locale` located at `config/app.php` file.

### Config: `localizater.locales`

Add supported locales. It's recommended to write the locale value with its native language.

```php
'locales' => [
    'en' => 'English',
    'fr' => 'Français',
    'ar' => 'العربية',
]
```

### Config: `localizater.rtl_locales`

Add RTL direction locales.

```php
'rtl_locales' => ['ar']
```

### Config: `localizater.prefix_default`

If this option is set to true, Default locale URL will be prefixed.

```txt
true:
  www.example.com/en
  www.example.com/fr

false:
  www.example.com
  www.example.com/fr
```

### Config: `localizater.prefix_default_name`

If this option is set to true, Default locale route name will be prefixed.

**true:**

| Method | URI  | URI      | Name    |
| ------ | ---- | -------- | ------- |
| GET    | HEAD | /page    | en.page |
| GET    | HEAD | /fr/page | fr.page |

**false:**

| Method | URI  | URI      | Name    |
| ------ | ---- | -------- | ------- |
| GET    | HEAD | /page    | page    |
| GET    | HEAD | /fr/page | fr.page |

## Usage

The package will not override the route features you already know. It's just a wrapper function that will create multiple locale routes for you.

```php
// routes/web.php

<?php

use Getsupercode\Localizater\Facades\Localizater;
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Route;

Localizater::group(function () {
    Route::view('/', 'welcome')->name('welcome');

    Route::get('/user', 'UserController@index');
});

// Put other (Non read) route actions outside the `Localizater::group` as you don't need to have multiple locales for those actions.

Route::post('/user', 'UserController@store');
```

The above example will give us:

| Method    | URI      | Name       |
| --------- | -------- | ---------- |
| GET\|HEAD | /        | welcome    |
| GET\|HEAD | /fr      | fr.welcome |
| GET\|HEAD | /user    |            |
| GET\|HEAD | /fr/user | fr.        |
| POST      | /user    |            |

### Route naming

If you add a name to a route it will be prepended by the locale key `locale.name`. _for example: (`fr.welcome`)_

All locales without a name will have the same prefix name like `fr.`. And this is normal as you don't need its names.

### Localizater attributes

You can add attributes to the localizer group function as you do with the route group function.

```php
Localizater::group(['middleware' => 'auth'], function () {
    Route::view('/home', 'home')->name('home');
});
```

Or:

```php
Localizater::group(function () {
    Route::group(['middleware' => 'auth'], function () {
        Route::view('/home', 'home')->name('home');
    });
});
```

### Get route URL in a specified locale

You can get the current route URL in different locale key:

```php
// Current route URL: example.com

locale_route(null, 'fr');

// Output: example.com/fr
```

Or a named route:

```php
// Route URL: example.com/fr/home

locale_route('home', 'en');

// Output: example.com/home
```

You can pass the same parameters as the [`route()`](https://laravel.com/docs/7.x/helpers#method-route) function after the locale parameter.

```php
// locale_route($route, $locale, $parameters, $absolute);

// Current route
locale_route(null, 'fr', ['status' => 'active'], true);

// Named route
locale_route('home', 'fr', ['status' => 'active'], true);
```

### Get locale language name

You can get the value of the locale key in `localizater.locales` configuration for the current locale or a specified locale:

```php
locale_name();
// Output: English

locale_name('fr');
// Output: Français

locale_name('ar');
// Output: العربية
```

### Get HTML `dir` attribute based on current locale

You can get HTML `dir` attribute based on current locale. The package will search for RTL locales in `localizater.rtl_locales` config. If the current locale is listed there, The output will be `rtl` or `ltr` if it's not listed.

```php
// Current locale is: ar
locale_dir();
// Output: rtl

// Current locale is: en
locale_dir();
// Output: ltr
```

```html
<html dir="{{ locale_dir() }}"></html>
```

You can also get `dir` attribute for a specified locale:

```php
locale_dir('ar');
// Output: rtl
```

## Change log

Please see the [changelog](changelog.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Contributing

Please see [contributing.md](contributing.md) for details.

## Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email elkebir.med@gmail.com instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Mohamed Elkebir][link-author]
- [All Contributors][link-contributors]

## License

MIT. Please see the [license file](license.md) for more information.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/getsupercode/localizater.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-downloads]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/getsupercode/localizater.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-styleci]: https://styleci.io/repos/282613224/shield
[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/getsupercode/localizater
[link-downloads]: https://packagist.org/packages/getsupercode/localizater
[link-styleci]: https://styleci.io/repos/282613224
[link-author]: https://github.com/elkebirmed
[link-contributors]: ../../contributors
